How do we keep food fresh?
How can we reduce water usage in our daily lives?
How do we make trash valuable?
How do we innovate to make the world a better place?
Is what we do.
So at Dow, we have this graph that measures our net carbon emissions
of our entire product portfolio.
We've made very ambitious targets related to our carbon neutrality,
where by 2050 we want to reach complete carbon neutrality.
And with this graph, we can see the various projects,
investments, and opportunities we have to reduce our carbon footprint.
And what's also very special about that set of goals is that it's not purely aspirational.
We know we have understood the technologies required.
We have projects in place to account for pretty much 95% of that CO2 mitigation.
That remaining 5%, it's going to require a lot of creativity and ingenuity
from all different functions across Dow.
It's going to be up to us to figure out how to get there.
I work at Dow because I love Dow's mission.
We touch Dow products all the time.
They're in food packaging, mattresses, car parts, adhesives.
And I like to do science to make people's lives better.
We're also very ambitious because we don't want to just deliver these solutions.
We want to do it in a sustainable way.
And so all of that involves great technical and technology gaps.
We have a very capable and innovative bunch of researchers
that are able to get a lot done with just about any set of tooling that you throw out of them.
However, the Posit tools, what they've enabled is an extremely low barrier to entry
that's allowed people who have an idea to go test that idea in a matter of minutes
and to be able to share the work product of exploring a concept, a Friday afternoon activity,
and go and share that with some of their colleagues with relative ease.
So I think as scientists, we're very driven towards questioning.
Questioning in the sense of making sure that we're doing the right thing
or that we should be pursuing the thing that we want to pursue.
It's our critical thinking superpower, and I think it's healthy.
But once we started not only talking about the vision of what these tools could do for us,
or started building prototypes, a lot of light bulbs started going off in people's head.
Once you have those initial success stories,
and then all of these exciting ideas were on the table, the conversation was not anymore,
why should we do this? It's how do we do it better? How do we do it more intentionally?
But there is a moment when it all converges, and it clicks, and it starts flowing,
and now you have this rhythm.
Since 2019, we've grown from this handful of researchers to over 300 people now have access
to Posit Workbench internally, and even more are using apps that are deployed on Posit Connect.
That growth has been in part through our investment in Posit Academy,
where we're teaching people how to code using an example and a project
that's tailored to the work that we expect that they'll use these tools for.
But also, we've been very intentional about trying to grow this community.
We also have a citizen data science program.
We have more and more people asking us for these capabilities,
asking us for these tools that they can go use to get more value out of their data,
to improve their own productivity.
Seeing people who so often may hesitate to put on that,
I'm a data scientist hat or label, but seeing what they're able to create gets me really excited.
The goal is really to make sure that every person in the organization
has some level of fluency, so they can understand and respect data generated the best possible way.
When they are showing someone data, they will show with the highest standards of science
and statistics, and that they document properly all the metadata around what they generated,
so in the future, people can use them for advanced modeling the best possible way.
That connection between research and development, between science and doing good,
this ability to use science to make the planet a bit better,
and to leave it in better conditions for my kids is extremely important to me.
In a typical workday, it's easy to get lost in all of those meetings,
in the busy calendars, or the kids at home.
It's easy to get lost in that and forget about the impact that we're going to have.
And it's a huge challenge that we have to face,
because we're literally taking what previously we've looked at as trash,
and now we want to stick it back into our products.
Not only is it something we want to do, it's something that we are doing.
When I think about a career at Dow, I want to be able to look back and see the,
maybe small, but real contribution I will have made to help us reach that.
And I think we will.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to PositConf 2024.
I'm so excited to see so many of you all here in the room,
and I know there are many more joining us online as well.
A few important pieces of information.
The number one thing you need to know about is the app that has everything that's going on,
regardless of whether it's our awesome speakers,
or some of those fun social events we have planned for you.
Also, two important links in the app.
The first is in many of the sessions,
you'll be able to ask questions of the speakers through Slido.
And if you want to engage with others online,
whether they're here in person or not, you can use our Discord server.
The first time this year, we're trying out something fun.
We have a little bit of a conference competition going on.
You can enter to be in to win prizes,
like free tickets to next year's Conf, or sticker packs, or signed books.
The competition is going to ask you some fun questions about you,
and we're going to present those in a shiny Encordo app, of course.
You'll be able to see those statistics live, updating in the lounge.
If you haven't heard of the lounge,
you've already walked through it on the way to the keynote.
But this is the best place to sit down, grab a coffee,
talk to our sponsors, and if you have any questions
about Posit products, open source, or commercial,
we'll have a bunch of folks there to answer any questions that you might have.
If you need to identify a Posit employee,
the shirt color is a little subtler than it has been in the past,
but we are wearing a bluish green, and you all are wearing a greenish green.
We really want everyone to feel safe and welcome at Posit Conf,
so as part of your registration process,
you've already agreed to our code of conduct.
If you experience any problems, or see anyone else having problems,
please let us know.
You can approach any Posit employee, you can come to the registration desk,
or you can email conf at posit.co.
We've also given you a bunch of information available on your lanyards and badges,
so if you want to indicate whether you'd prefer hugs,
or handshakes, or no contact, you can grab one of our contact pins.
We ask you to respect folks' pronouns on their badges,
and finally, if you see anyone wearing a red lanyard,
that's an indication that I'd like to not appear in any photographs.
We also have a bunch of spaces reserved if you have kids with you,
and they need somewhere to run around while you watch the talks on your computer.
We have a family room on floor six.
We also have a quiet zone there if you want to do some work or just chill out.
On the fifth floor, we've got a meditation and prayer room,
and a lactation room, and every room has gender-neutral bathrooms.
Gender-neutral bathrooms.
That brings me to the most important rule of PositConf,
and that is the Pac-Man rule.
The Pac-Man rule is if you're standing in a group,
please make sure you leave Pac-Man's mouth open so that new people can join the group.
We know this is a big conference, and it can be intimidating to meet people,
so at lunch today and tomorrow, we have birds of a feather stations.
This makes it easy to sit down and talk to someone
because you've got a guaranteed shared common interest.
Hopefully, you get the idea that community is important to us,
and community is important to us not just at Conf,
but to the company as a whole.
I wanted to take a couple of minutes of your time while I'm up here in front of you all
to talk a little bit about who we are, what we do,
and then I'm going to introduce three of my colleagues
who are going to tell you some of the particularly cool stuff
we've been working on in the last few months.
So, to understand who we are, I think it's worth looking at our name.
Now, this is not a particularly complicated name, but there are two parts,
and I wanted to talk first about the second part,
this PBC, or Public Benefit Corp, or B Corp.
So, what is a PBC?
Well, if you imagine all organizations falling on some sort of continuum,
on one side, you've got corporations.
In the US, at least, the sole goal of an LLC
is to maximize shareholder revenue, shareholder value.
And this is not the worst thing, right?
Corporations have been a tremendous economic engine
for the world over the last hundred years,
but at Posit, we don't just want to make money,
we want to do something good in the world as well.
And one way to do something good in the world is to be a charity.
But being a charity is really hard, because you have to ask people for money,
and they have to give you money out of the goodness of their hearts.
And while there are many incredibly valuable charities,
at Posit, we believe we can provide you
some kind of like immediate benefits as well,
as well as this longer-term mission
to create really amazing open-source tools for data science.
We can give you some tools that actually pay off right away,
and that you're hopefully willing to pay us for.
And so that's why we're a PBC.
A PBC kind of lies in the middle.
It has responsibilities towards its shareholders,
but also to its employees, to the environment,
and to the community.
And every PBC has to have some kind of fundamental mission as well.
And so this is our mission,
to create free and open-source software for data science,
scientific research, and technical communication.
This mission is something that's so important to us
that is fundamentally encoded in our corporate DNA.
So that's the PBC side of the name.
Well, what about the Posit side?
Well, many of you know we used to be called RStudio,
and that's because we mostly cared about R.
In the very early days, certainly we were 100% R,
but it hasn't been true for a very long time,
because even over the last 10 years,
we've started to produce tools for Python,
and SQL, and Julia, and other languages.
And you may have heard JJ and Tarif talk about our goal
of being a 100-year company.
And when you think about that kind of time span,
no matter how much you might love any programming language today,
it seems pretty unlikely that it's going to be around
in 100 years' time.
So for Posit to exist for 100 years,
we need to be willing to embrace many different languages over time.
The other thing we need,
if we want to be around for a long time,
is money, and probably bags of it.
And that brings me to the kind of economic engine
at the heart of Posit,
which we call the virtuous cycle.
So the virtuous cycle starts with us creating free
and open-source software
that anyone, anywhere in the world can use,
regardless of means.
And millions of people use those tools.
And then some of those people go on to join organizations,
larger organizations that have kind of special needs,
and that leads them to our commercial products.
And by buying our commercial products,
you both give us the money to support further investment
in free and open-source software,
but you also give us data.
Data about what are the challenges facing data sciences today
that we can solve in both our open-source tools
and our commercial tools.
So the way we kind of think a little,
kind of think about the split between the free and the paid
is generally the tools we provide for doing data science are free.
So that's tools like the Tidyverse and Tidymodels
for doing data science in R
or many of the hundreds of R packages that we maintain.
It's also true for tools like Shiny,
which allow you to create interactive apps for R and Python,
or Korto, which allow you to create data-driven documents
and using R and Python and Julia and other languages.
When you want to bring those tools into your organization,
that's where our commercial tools come into play.
Because large organizations have special needs.
They have needs for things like authentication and monitoring,
security, for scaling and tuning and data governance.
And we also charge for products that live in the cloud,
regardless of whether those are our own products,
like Shiny Apps IO or Posit Cloud,
or tools from our partners like Databricks and Snowflake,
or for generalized compute services like AWS or Azure
or Google's Compute Platform.
So at the heart of Posit, there are really three beliefs.
First of all, we believe in open source,
that the era of using proprietary software to do data science is over.
That open source provides such a benefit,
is such a great way of doing software development,
because it brings together expertise
from many, many people all around the world.
We also believe in code,
and clearly not getting our fonts correct.
We believe if you're doing data science every day,
that the benefits of learning to code
massively outweigh the costs of learning to code.
Now, this is certainly not true for everyone, right?
Not everyone uses data science every day,
and there's a bunch of different user interfaces
that might appeal to different types of people.
But fundamentally, what we believe in
and the audience that we want to serve
are people who write code.
And so what we want to do is take open source,
code-first data science,
and make it ready for the enterprise,
so that you can take the same tools
that you used for free when you're learning,
and regardless of whether you join
a 10-person little business
or a 100,000-person massive organization,
you can take those tools
and continue to use them effectively.
So what are those tools?
Well, the first one, and to my mind at least,
the most important, is Kinect,
because it connects data scientists to decision makers.
Kinect makes it easy to deploy
whatever you create as a data scientist
regardless of whether that's a Shiny app
or a Flask API or a Cordo document
or an R Markdown document,
and get that out of your hands
and into the hands of the people,
the decision makers in your organization.
Posit Workbench is about helping data scientists,
teams of data scientists,
collaborate using shared compute
and providing seamless authorization
and authentication
so you can just get the data you need
without having to fuss around
trying to find the right database driver
or randomly Google
and finding Stack Overflow answers from five years ago.
And Workbench helps you do that
regardless of whether you use RStudio
or JupyterLab, Jupyter Notebooks, or VS Code.
Posit Package Manager is all about
bringing open-source R packages and Python packages
into the walled garden of your IT organization
so that your IT folks don't need to worry
about you installing random code from the internet
and you can still use all of the tools that you're used to.
As James mentioned in the intro video,
Posit Academy is all about creating new data scientists
using a project-based apprenticeship program
that brings together data scientist mentors
from Posit with mentors inside your organization
so that folks learn the way that you all do data science.
And then finally, we have Posit Cloud,
which solves problems for organizations,
often small and medium businesses and education,
that don't want to run their own IT organization.
It allows you to compute in the cloud
and publish your results to share
without having to have a big team of people
in your organization running your own hardware.
So let's Posit PBC.
We are a company that has a mission.
We want to make free and open-source software
to make data science, scientific communication,
and technical publishing better.
And we do that by selling products
that hopefully also make your lives better
inside companies as well.
So this is a mission that really aligns
with my personal mission and is one of the reasons
that I joined our studio, I joined Posit,
well, I joined our team,
I joined Posit, well, I joined our studio,
and I continue to work at Posit today.
Next up, I'd love to introduce three of my colleagues
who are going to speak about some of the cool stuff
that we've been doing as a company lately.
In reverse order, we have Databricks
and we have James Blair,
who's gonna talk about Databricks and Snowflake.
George Stack is gonna talk about WebR
and Carlotte Wickham is gonna talk about Corto.
Over to you, Charlotte.
Thank you.
It's a pleasure to be here.
Coming to a conf keynote always takes me back
to being a little kid on Christmas morning.
I get so excited about waiting to see what presents
are waiting for me under the tree.
And back then, just like now,
there's always someone else there
trying to spoil it, my big brother Hadley.
So the present for me two and a half years ago was Corto.
But the real present has been seeing
what you've built with it.
And we've seen some absolutely beautiful websites
like this one from Real World Data Science.
And I've seen you exquisitely wrap up your reports
with custom output like this one from Megan Hall
and this one from the R for the rest of us team.
You can learn more about both of those
if you head to the pour some glitter on it session tomorrow.
I really love to see people use Corto for documentation.
It's a little bit more like getting a pair of socks
for Christmas.
It's like slightly underwhelming when you open them
but every day you put them on, you get a little bit of joy.
And the less time you spend worrying about
how to build documentation,
the more time you get to spend writing it
and the more people you get using what you've built.
And in this case, that's a tool for spatial equity
and you can learn more about that from Gabriel Morrison
in the data science case studies session.
I'm here today to talk about two things
that the Corto team has been working on in the last year.
And the first comes from looking back,
looking back to the R Markdown ecosystem
and seeing what was missing in Corto.
And that was dashboards.
So Corto dashboards are an HTML format
designed for the full page layout of plots and tables and values.
And this is one I found out out in the wild,
somebody already using it
for the Shelby County Department of Housing.
The fundamental unit in a Corto dashboard is a card.
And these cards get laid out in rows and columns.
What does it look like to build a Corto dashboard?
Take a look at this HTML document.
It's got a table, it's got a plot, it's got a map.
What does it take to turn that into a dashboard?
Well, you simply swap out format HTML for format dashboard.
All of the computational outputs are going to get put into cards
and then those cards get laid out on the page.
By default, that happens in a single column.
You can see they're all stacked on top of each other.
What happens if you want a two-row layout?
All you have to do is add two markdown headings.
It's as simple as that.
You can put anything in a Corto dashboard
that you could normally put in a Corto document.
But there are some specific dashboard components.
So, for example, there are these value boxes.
These are ways to have a single value
but in a visually attractive way.
And there is this idea of input panels,
which is a way to group together interactive inputs
into sidebars or toolbars.
You can also add interactivity in a Corto dashboard
any way you can in a Corto document,
including native support for observable JS.
You can use frameworks like Leaflet and Plotly and 3JS
through HTML widgets in R and Jupyter widgets in Python.
And, of course, you can use Shiny.
You can add Shiny and Shiny for Python inputs
and outputs directly in code cells.
You can learn more about dashboards
by heading to corto.org and checking out our guide.
If you want to see a dashboard in action at Conf,
head to the It's Not R or Python session.
It's R and Python.
You can hear Nick Crane and Alenka Frum
talk about a dashboard they've built
that's got both Python and R components.
Now, if you've been paying really close attention,
you'll notice I've just recommended three sessions.
They're all happening tomorrow at 1 p.m.
And life is never easy.
There's actually a fourth session
also with a great Corto talk.
So you can also head along
to level up your data science skills
to hear Cynthia Huang talk about some interesting things
she's been using Corto for
in terms of knowledge management.
And I don't know what I'm going to be doing
at 1 p.m. tomorrow.
Probably just sitting somewhere completely confused
and disabled by too much choice.
The next thing I want to talk about is the future.
The next thing I want to talk about
comes from looking towards the future.
In particular, the future of PDF.
Let me tell you about our PBC report.
This is a report that Posit makes every two years
that tracks our progress toward our mission.
And it is primarily a PDF document.
Here's the cover of that document.
Inside, there's some pages
that have this dark blue hex background.
There's some pages that have a white background
but with some full bleed photos.
Text is laid out in two columns.
Some pages have a banner at the top.
There's plots in there.
This year, we made that report with Corto.
And if you've made PDFs with Corto before,
you know that they go through LaTeX on that journey.
But we did not make this report by going through LaTeX.
We used Typed.
Typed is a new open source framework for producing PDFs.
And it's already supported by Corto.
To use Typed, you simply swap out format PDF for format Typed.
We think Typed is the future of PDF
because it's really easy to get started.
Corto bundles Typed,
so there's no separate install to manage.
You can do it today.
Typed is really fast.
So rendering a PDF via Typed
is much faster than rendering a PDF via LaTeX.
We think it's easier to learn.
There's great documentation on the Typed site.
And the syntax feels a lot more familiar
to people that are coming from languages
like R or Python or Julia.
And it's very customizable.
So our report being an example of that.
It took a little work to get that customization,
but you can produce really beautiful documents.
So we think it's the future of PDF.
It maybe isn't quite the present of PDF.
Typed is still developing,
and our support in Corto is still developing too.
But I do want to show you something really cool
you can do in Typed right now.
So take a look at this table.
This is an HTML table.
It's built using the GreatTables package in Python.
And an example from Grant Chalmers.
It's on the GreatTables documentation site.
And I think it's a beautiful table.
And GreatTables and GT and a lot of table packages
really focus on absolutely beautiful HTML output.
So what happens if you switch to Typed?
Well, behind the scenes,
Corto takes all the CSS
that makes that HTML table really beautiful,
and it converts it to Typed properties.
And what that means is when you get your PDF out,
that table looks just as good as it did in HTML,
but now it's in a PDF.
And not only that, like Typed is sort of good enough
to know that, hey, this table's pretty long.
It's not going to fit on one page.
I'll break it over two pages,
and I'll repeat the headers and footers
and make it all just work for you.
It's really cool.
The last thing I wanted to talk about
is not what we've been working on,
but what other people have been working on
that enhances Corto for everyone.
So when Corto was built, it was great
because it brought all these features of R
marked down to Python users
without requiring them to install R.
But if you were a Julia user,
the first thing you would see is,
hey, you need to install Jupyter,
and that's a Python thing.
That is no longer true.
There is a native Julia engine,
so if you want to run Julia code
without having to have an R install or a Python install,
you can now do that.
And that was an entirely external contribution
from Julius Krumbegel.
The other contributions I want to talk about
come in the form of extensions.
And there are Corto extensions
to add QR codes to your slide,
and there are Corto extensions
to add countdowns to your slide.
There's already a Corto extension
that gives you Tufti-style output via types.
And there are so many extensions
that you should check out this other contribution.
This is a Corto extension listing
built by Mikhail Kanwe.
And it's a great place to go to see
what's new in the extension world
and what's popular in the extension world.
If you want to see some Corto extensions here at Conf,
you can see James Goldie talking about an extension
he's built to bring the power of Svelte graphics
to Corto documents.
And you can also hear Andrew Bray
talk about an extension he's worked on with James
to bring scroll retelling to Corto documents.
If I haven't put enough on your schedule already,
you can find the Corto team in the lounge today at noon.
It's been an absolute pleasure
telling you what we've been working on
and showing what you've been working on.
And I hope that together we can keep Corto
as the gift that keeps on giving.
Now you're going to hear from someone
that's already given many gifts to the Corto community.
Please welcome George Stagg.
Hello, my name is George Stagg
and I'm the lead developer of the WebR system,
a way to run R code directly inside your web browser.
So I've been working for Posit now for about two years
and I'm still really excited to tell people that.
Posit's mission of making great open source software
really resonates with me.
I've been working for Posit for about two years
and I'm still really excited to tell people that.
Posit's mission of making great open source software
really resonates with me.
I've been making open source software for over 10 years now.
I started in research software developing for HPC
and over that time my approach to open source
has always been no matter what you do,
no matter what decisions I make,
they must always be in the interest of the user.
And it was that philosophy that originally led me
to create WebR.
At the time I was supporting a group of students
who were remote up and down the UK
and we needed to evaluate R code
in a consistent environment and capture those results.
To me this felt like the best solution for the job.
If you've not seen WebR before,
here's an example of a WebR application.
It's a website you can visit
and when you do an R console pops up
and you can type code in and you can do visualizations
and you can really experiment with R
in a very easy way, very quickly.
This is really great for new users of R
who don't have something like RStudio installed.
And Hadley earlier talked about the idea
of code first data science.
What could be more code first than opening a web browser
and typing in some R code?
So how does this work?
The main technology is called WebAssembly
and what WebAssembly is,
is a portable binary code format.
So what does that mean?
Really this just means that
if you take a piece of software and compile it,
you get a big list of instructions to execute.
The word portable here
just means that those instructions,
the binary is the same on every machine.
And that's done by running that binary inside a web browser.
It's really designed to run
high performance applications in this way.
It does work with most modern web browsers on many devices.
And one of the things it's really great at is security
because it's really designed to run on the web.
It runs your code in a containerized sandbox environment.
In a web browser,
you interact with WebAssembly through JavaScript
and that has positives and negatives.
It means that WebR itself is a JavaScript application.
So you need to write JavaScript to use it.
And a positive of that is that
it means it works great with other web technologies.
A downside of that is that
you probably don't love writing JavaScript code.
At least not in the same way
that the people in front of me love writing R code
or they love writing Python code.
So for that reason,
in addition to working on WebR,
we produce tools built upon WebR to make your job easier.
Tools like ShinyLive.
At PositConf last year,
Joe Tang had a talk introducing ShinyLive for R
built upon the WebR technology.
And over the years since then,
we've been continuing to update the system.
There's been several releases.
And you can use ShinyLive now in a web browser
to interact with live Shiny examples.
You can export existing apps using an R package.
Or you can use a Quota extension
to embed Shiny applications
directly into your Quota documents.
Again, the website example is great.
You can go on to a URL and type some Shiny code
and it just appears.
And I've actually seen this used at workshops
to teach people how to use Shiny
and to share examples.
And that takes me on to one of the demographics
that have really taken ShinyLive and run with it.
And that's the demographic of educational content educators.
They've really embraced the idea
of WebAssembly-powered educational content.
And for that reason,
we thought to ourselves,
well, is there more we can do?
Can we get more WebAssembly into Quota documents?
And the answer to that is yes.
And I've been working on a new extension
for Quota over the last six months.
And we're calling it Quota Live.
Quota Live is a way to get interactive code examples
in R in your Quota documents.
You can directly interact with that code
and you can create code exercises
so that if you're an educator,
you can create very easy ways
for students to interact with your code
and get quality feedback.
We've designed Quota Live to be really, really easy
to use both for authors
and for the students and learners.
So what does it look like?
So let's say you have a Quota document
and it looks a bit like this.
You've got some R code
and it's producing a visualization.
Here we have some air quality data
from 1970s New York
and it's plotting some temperatures
and some ozone levels.
Now, let's say you want to turn this
into an interactive example.
Much like in Charlotte's examples,
you change the format into a live format
and you change your R block into a web R block.
And if you have the Quota Live extension installed,
that's it.
You do nothing else.
It just, it works.
You can see the output looks pretty much identical.
That's by design.
And the only real difference
is that your source code above your output
is now an editable code block
that you can interact with
and click the buttons to rerun your code.
Now, this is great for students
because someone who's interacting
with this content for the first time
may be interested.
They want to know more.
They want to play with this example.
Previously, they would have to copy that code
and open our studio
and switch to a different window.
But now they can literally just change the code
to plot wind instead of temperature,
hit the button,
and it's there in the same page
inside their document.
By the way,
one of the things I'm really excited about this
is that those are no longer pictures
that are distributed with your document.
They're generated dynamically on the fly
every time you open that document.
That means they're kind of reproducible by default, right?
Because the fact that you can see that image at all
means the R code in your document
has executed successfully
and produced some output.
If you're an educator
and you want to augment these code examples
into an exercise,
you give it an exercise label.
At that point,
you can then add things
to make that exercise more and more interactive.
Here's an example
where we're asking a student to plot some data, right?
And what we're going to do
is we're going to augment that with some setup code.
So we create another WebR block.
We tell it it's a setup block
and this is the exercise that it's linked to.
And what we've done
is we've set up that data set for the students
so they don't have to worry about it.
They don't have to worry about loading that data.
It's just there.
They can just directly answer that question
without having to worry about the extra parts.
And that's because a setup block
will run automatically
every time when that student hits the run button.
So let's say the student tries to run their code.
They see, okay, there's a blank.
I need to answer this question.
But they're struggling.
They're new to this.
They're not quite sure what's going on.
Can we help?
Well, we could add a hint
and we do that using a quarter block.
Here's a quarter block with the class hint
and we've, again, linked it to our exercise
using that same shared exercise label.
Inside there, you can write your hint
and you'll notice it's not added
to the document straight away.
Instead, QuartoLive adds a button
to the exercise saying hint
and when the student clicks it,
then they get the hint text containing your block.
And if the student's still struggling,
you can do the same thing with a solution block.
You can write your Quarto code inside a solution block
and when the student hits that button,
they see that solution text.
What's really great about this
is that this is just Quarto syntax.
There's nothing new here.
All of the tools that you know how to write in Quarto
to make great content will work inside these blocks.
Tools like call-out blocks,
tools like collapsible panels,
syntax highlighted code blocks,
code annotations to really explain
how a piece of code works.
All of these things work inside a solution block
and a hint block.
So you can make all of these tools
work with your exercises straight away.
Now that the student has seen the solution,
they can then obviously continue
to interact with the code exercise,
paste in that code and run it
and ah, I'd recognize that logo anyway.
A nice, well, maybe not so nice,
an interesting thing about educational content
is that lots of students now
are not really interacting with this content
using a laptop or a desktop computer
with a big screen.
They're interacting with this content
on screens that look more like this.
And we've really designed WebR
to work as best as it can
on these constrained devices
so that all those tools like visualizing
and plotting and producing graphics,
they work on something like a mobile phone or tablet,
even if these devices themselves
can't install something like R or RStudio.
And much in the same way that Quarto itself
resizes very nicely on these small screens,
Quarto Live has again also been designed
so that these exercises work well
in these kind of environments.
The idea here is that
we want to be able to support education for any user,
no matter what kind of device they're using.
Some more quick examples of the things
you can do with Quarto Live.
If you've ever used the LearnR or GradeThis system,
you may be interested in writing algorithms
to grade students' code.
You can do that.
Here's an example where we ask students
to do some filtering and summarizing
of some customer reviews of a cat bed.
And if the student makes a mistake,
we can give some encouraging feedback to say,
you know, try again, you're almost there.
If the student gets the answer right,
we can give some celebratory feedback
to say, great job.
What's really great about this
is that the R code that the student writes
is really being evaluated.
And your grading algorithms
are also really being evaluated.
And then these are all written in R code.
So you can catch certain mistakes
that you know students are going to make.
Say, you know students are going to use
a double ampersand here when they should use one.
In addition to the error text from R,
which may not be entirely clear
to a new student what that means,
you can add targeted feedback to say,
oh, this is what you've done wrong
and this is how you can fix it.
The tools that make this work
are very dynamic and very general.
They're not just designed to work
with exercises like this.
In a Quarter Live document,
you can use observable JS inputs
with WebAssembly blocks
to create a dashboard-like experience
deployed to some kind of static server,
something like GitHub Pages,
something like Quarter Pub.
Again, these tools that authors
already know how to use,
they can deploy to these places
without having to become an expert in DevOps,
learn how to run a Shiny server
and manage these Shiny applications.
Instead, you can just fire and forget.
So, that's Quarter Live.
It was released last week.
It's available on GitHub.
It's free and open source.
It's a Quarter extension
and I'm really super duper excited
to see what you create
with this kind of tool.
Everything from educational content
for colleges and universities
to interactive demonstrations
of R packages in documentation.
It also works with Python.
It uses the PyDyed WebAssembly engine
so you can also create exercises in Python too.
And you can even share data
between WebAssembly and PyDyed,
between Web on PyDyed
if that is something you're interested in.
Okay, I'm going to head off now.
Thank you very much for listening.
I'm going to hand you over
to our next speaker, James.
Thank you.
Yesterday, I noticed
a particularly interesting sticker
on Hadley's laptop.
So, I asked him about it
and he told me that it was
for particularly strong contributors
to the Tidyverse
and then he didn't offer me one.
Which isn't really surprising
and in fact kind of begs the question,
what am I doing up here?
And if you find out,
please let me know.
I'd like to start today though
by turning the clock back
to an experience that we all likely had
at some point early in our journey,
which was something like this.
For the very first time,
we opened up an environment
or a tool like RStudio or VS Code
and we wrote some initial lines of R Python.
Now, if you were like me,
some of those initial lines of code
read in some sort of local data source
and then allowed me to start exploring
that data object
using a new and exciting world
of open source tools.
This was my very first introduction
to this data science life cycle.
This idea of bringing data
into an environment,
use tools to explore, visualize,
analyze, clean it up
and then report out
on the thing that I've learned.
This period of my life
was a period of tremendous excitement.
I still look back on this period of life
and feel butterflies
about how exciting it was to learn
all that I was now capable of.
And part of the reason
that it was exciting at this point
was because everything
was very easily understood.
The work that I was doing
was all happening
in the scope of my own little laptop.
The tools I was using
and the data that I was accessing
were all available right in front of me,
easy to understand and think about.
However, over time,
things have changed a little bit.
The data moved to a database.
I had to figure out how to access that.
Then the tools I was using
moved to some sort of cloud platform.
Now the only gateway I had
was no longer some sort of process
running locally,
but rather a web browser
that I was using to access some service
running somewhere else in the cloud.
Now, at the end of the day,
I'm still doing this.
I'm still accessing data.
I'm still working with it,
understanding it
and then communicating
some sort of result from that data
out to somebody
who's invested in that result.
But it can start to feel like
to get there,
I have to dig through
an ever-growing pile of dirt.
Now, we're fully capable people.
We can dig in and get our hands dirty.
But this is not the work
that we want to be doing.
Instead, we want to be working with data
and we want to get there
as quickly as possible.
Now, here at Posit,
we've been hard at work
doing the best job that we can
to clear this out of the way
so that you can get back
to doing the work that you know and love.
One of the ways we've done that
over the past year
has been through our partnerships
with leading cloud platforms
like Snowflake and Databricks.
We've looked at our community
and the conversations
that we have with each of you
to determine ways that we can partner
with these platforms
to solve some of these unique challenges
that exist,
particularly for those of you
that are working
in large enterprise organizations.
We've identified kind of three key areas
that we've been focused on.
Infrastructure management,
data access and control,
and application deployment.
I want to take a few minutes today
to walk through some of the things
that we've done
over the past several months
to address some of the challenges
that we've observed
in each of these areas.
Let's start with infrastructure management.
Now, most of you out here today
are end users of Posit products,
whether that's purely open source users
operating inside of the RStudio IDE
in some environment
or you're working
as part of a large organization
with access to our commercial tools.
However, some of you,
either by choice
or most of you likely by accident,
have found yourself
in an administrative role.
This means that you're responsible
for maintaining a set of infrastructure
that other members of your team
use to access Posit tools
or other tools in the cloud.
As I speak with these individuals
almost every week,
I hear some version of this request.
We want everything to just be managed
and done for us.
Now, I can understand this request.
As enterprises grow
in their infrastructure complexity,
the desire to simplify
is increasing.
And we see more and more organizations
turning to cloud platforms
to try to solve this exact problem.
And it's easy to understand why.
If we take a look
at the Posit Workbench documentation,
you can see that it's rather complex
in the variety of different ways
it can be configured,
set up and administered.
Now, this is not complexity
for complexity's sake.
Rather, Workbench is designed
to be highly flexible
so that it can meet the needs
of a variety of different organizations
based on size,
security requirements
and other needs.
However, it can be difficult
to manage and maintain,
particularly for smaller teams.
One of the ways
that we've chosen to solve this
is by partnering with organizations
like Snowflake
to provide Posit Workbench
as an application
that's available
through the Snowflake Marketplace.
What this means
is that existing Posit customers
can go to the Snowflake Marketplace,
subscribe to this application,
input their existing Posit license key,
update a few small configuration things
and then provide users
within their organization
with access to a version
of Posit Workbench
that's all running directly
inside of their Snowflake infrastructure.
This version of Posit Workbench
will automatically be updated
when new versions
and new releases come out
and it's a very low maintenance
hands-off approach
to delivering the end result
that users need.
And we're committed at Posit
to continue to work
with other cloud data platforms
providing similar experience
in other environments.
Now, once your infrastructure
is set up and configured,
the next thing you need
is access to the data.
As an R user accessing local data
or as a Python user,
accessing local data
is typically pretty straightforward.
Like the example we saw
at the very beginning,
there's a whole series of commands,
tools and packages
for reading data
from a local data source,
whether that's a CSV file
or something else.
However, once the data moves location
and becomes part of an infrastructure
that's more governed
and more secure
than what you would typically find locally,
the way that we connect
starts to look like something like this.
This is an example of some R code
used to access Databricks
to read some data.
There's a lot here.
Now, it's not difficult to unpack.
All of us are capable
of writing code like this.
But there's a lot of detail here
that just provides opportunities
for mistakes.
I need to know
what the ODBC driver is called.
I need to understand
what these different arguments are.
And perhaps most critically,
I need to make sure
that I'm accessing this
in a secure way
that meets the security requirements
of my organization,
whether that's through a username
and password
or more often than not,
some form of a security token
that I don't have to remember,
but I have to keep
in a super secret location
and update every 30 days.
That can become a challenge.
So we've worked hard
over the past several months
to take this amount of work
and turn it into something
that looks more like this.
This approach dramatically simplifies
our ability to connect
to external data sources.
Because again,
until we have access to the data,
the real work hasn't really started yet.
We've accomplished this
in a couple of different ways.
One is through our contributions
to the open source ODBC R package
with functions like Databricks.
And there's also a function
called Snowflake
that facilitate easy connections
to these external resources.
These functions are part
of the open source package
and are available to anyone.
We've also made some adjustments
on the Posit Workbench side
to make it much easier for individuals
to gain access
to these backend data resources.
Posit Workbench users today
can now not only sign
into Posit Workbench
and start a new session
and decide whether they want to use
VS Code or RStudio
or any number of other tools.
They can also choose to sign in
to their Databricks account
or their Snowflake account.
Once they've gone
through this sign-in process,
which will just follow
whatever the typical sign-in process
is within your organization,
Posit Workbench
then will manage credentials
for that data connection
on your behalf.
This means you no longer
have to think about access tokens,
passwords, how to manage those,
how to pass those
into the connection string.
All that is taken care of for you
and you can get in
and immediately connect
to these data resources.
Now, this doesn't just work for ODBC,
although it works very well there.
You'll also notice
that it works for tools
like SparklyR
and interacting with Spark
and Databricks.
And it also works inside of VS Code
for a number of Python frameworks
and SDKs that have been provided
by platforms like Snowflake
and Databricks
as well as their respective
VS Code extensions.
Okay, so I've got access to the data.
Now I'm able to do what I want to do.
I explore the data.
I understand what it's teaching me.
I finally arrive at something
that I want to share.
So what do I share?
In many cases,
we see people share emails,
PowerPoint presentations,
static plots, documents.
But more and more frequently,
we're observing that users
are creating dynamic dashboards
and interactive web applications
that allow end users
and business users
to discover, explore,
and arrive at their own conclusions.
PositConnect makes it really easy
to share and deploy
these kinds of applications
across your organization.
So I can build a dashboard
that I share with the rest of my company.
However, as soon as I make this transition
from saying I've built something
to I want to share something,
I once again have to think
about authentication.
And the problem has gotten bigger
because now I'm not just thinking
about my own authentication
and how do I access the data.
Now I'm thinking about
how should everyone
who visits this application
access the data.
In a world where data security
is of highest importance,
the last thing I want to do
is unintentionally publish
an application
that gives someone else
unauthorized access
to data they should not
otherwise be able to see.
Now, this is not a new problem necessarily.
In fact, there are well-established
patterns for how to approach this.
One of them is to use
some sort of access token
attached to a service account.
So I create some sort of account
inside of Databricks, for example,
or Snowflake.
I say here's the permissions
for that account.
I generate a token
and then I input that
into my Connect product,
into my dashboard
so that it will use
that same credential set
whenever somebody
visits the application.
This pattern works very well,
but it really has
two distinct limitations.
One is everybody
visiting this dashboard
will see the same data
regardless of what
their specific permission set is.
They will see data governed by
the permission set
of the service account I've set up.
The other problem though
is that if the number of applications
I build grows,
the amount of service accounts
and access tokens
I'm responsible for also grows.
And now I'm spending
far more time
worrying about data access
and security from my
deployed applications
than I am building
and distributing
and creating new applications.
We're excited to announce
that starting last week,
this is all gone.
What we've now introduced
in Posit Connect
is native support
for authentication
into Databricks and Snowflake
just like we have
in Posit Workbench.
What this means is now
instead of configuring
an access token,
I can come into Posit Connect
and specify that
I want to make sure that
whoever visits this application
signs in to their Databricks
or Snowflake account.
Then as a viewer,
if I come to the application,
I'll see something like this.
This is my view.
But if I send this
to somebody else
and say I want you to log
into this application,
they'll first be prompted
to log into their
Snowflake account.
And once they've logged
in their Snowflake account,
they'll see the same application
but with their own unique view
powered by the permissions
they've been assigned
inside of Snowflake.
This means I don't have to worry
about who has access
to what data.
Instead, I can build something
and share it
and then anyone who accesses it
will have access to the data
they should be able to see
based on the permission
that have been set
within the database.
This works today for Snowflake
and Databricks
and we're actually looking
at other ways that we can continue
to expand this functionality.
Now, at the end of the day,
our mission at Posit,
as Hadley stated earlier,
is to create open source software
for data science,
scientific research,
and technical communication.
Now, one of our goals
and my personal goal
is to make sure that
regardless of whether
you're operating on the desktop
or you're operating in the cloud
or anywhere in between,
you have the ability to do that
in an environment
that feels comfortable
and familiar
and is immediately
and easily accessible.
If you'd like to learn more
about some of the things
that we've discussed this morning,
our commercial products,
our partnerships with organizations
like Snowflake and Databricks
or anything else,
again, feel free to visit us
in the lounge,
which can be found
right outside the doors
in the back of this room.
There'll be members
from the Posit product teams there
happy to answer questions
and you can find me there as well.
And with that,
please join me in welcoming
the one and only Hadley
back on stage.
Thanks, James.
So if you've been paying attention
to kind of data science
on the Internet
or some form of social media,
you might be wondering
that there's something
we didn't talk about today,
and that's Positron.
So Positron is a new multilingual IDE
that we've been working on at Posit.
The goal is to take
all of the things that you love
about our studio
and build them
on top of a new modern platform,
build on top of VS code.
So as well as R and Python,
we can continue to support data science
in whatever languages
come along in the future.
If you'd like to hear
more about Positron,
you're going to hear
from the entire Positron
development team
in the next session
after this break
in Columbia A&B.
So with that, again,
thank you for joining us
all at PositConf
in person and online.
Please enjoy
the rest of the conference.
Thank you.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai